We run it on QI a few years ago. Yeah. Which was there's no such thing as a fish.
It is not such thing as a fish. No seriously. It's in the Oxford Dictionary of Underwater Life.
It says it right there. First paragraph. No such thing as a fish.
Hello and welcome to another episode of No Such Thing as a Fish, a weekly podcast.
This time coming to you from the Turtle Comedy Book Festival in Camden, London.
My name is Dan Schreiber. I'm sitting here with Andy Murray.
And it's Zinsky and James Harkin. And this week all of our facts are coming from the new QI book.
1,411 QI facts to knock you sideways. So here are the four facts that we entered into that book.
And in no particular order here they are. Fact number one, James.
So my fact this week is Viking names included Desirus of Beer, Squat Wiggle,
Lust Hostage, Short Penis. Able to fill a bay with fish by magic.
The man who mixes his drinks. And the man without trousers.
But so, okay, when you say that these are Viking names, were they like,
were there more than two sometimes in a ship? Was it like, you did you have to be like,
do we have a surname here? Because we got two short penises on the loan.
I don't know about that. There's a great long list of them. These comes from names of people
actually from the sagas, from the Icelandic sagas and the Norwegian sagas.
And these are the kind of nicknames rather than actual first names, I think.
Did you find out anything about the specific, like, a Squat Wiggle? Do we know what that is?
What it is? What it is? Well, I can tell I don't know.
I assume the person who was called it, did it? Squat Swat?
And Wiggle. Yeah.
Is that the thing you do on a dance floor where you, like, go down to the floor and then up again?
But I do on the dance floor. Yeah. Or in the office sometimes, we all find a bit weird.
I think it's what, like, when a dog wipes its bum on the ground, on the carpet,
you know, it does that. Yeah. Little Squat Wiggle.
So, you know how Native Americans name their children after the first thing they see after they
give birth? Do they? Yeah, do you think Squat Wiggle's parents saw this dog doing the thing
on the floor? Wait, what? Really? Yeah, that's the idea.
I always thought that was a myth as well. Yeah, they called me. I'll show you some myth.
So, someone gave birth next to a sitting bull and that's how they got their name.
Yeah, that's the idea. Oh, jumping Badger. Is that literally what it was?
Well, that's the idea. I don't know if it's really true.
I think it depends what kind of next American you were, what tribe you were from.
Some of them named their children, I think, the me walk tribe named their kids after how
the nearest stream looked when they gave birth. Oh, really? Yeah.
It's probably a limited number of. Yeah, you've got to be very emancipated in the adjectives.
Yeah, wet, wet, muddy. Is that where the band got the name?
They were all in the me walk tribe. I like the, I hope the short penis and the man without trousers
were friends with each other. I hope one named the other.
I found out a few more of them. They're all from the land namabok, which is medieval work
about when the Norse went to Iceland and settled it. And so there's a load of, it's a bit like
a doomsday book. There are loads of records of people and why they live and all of this.
And a few more of them, same name, same source, harm fart, arson victim.
That was a name, arson victim, a person in trouble or in disgrace, but I think that's
inactually transcribed and able to remain warm in winter.
That sounds like a euphemism of fat, doesn't it?
Are you able to remain warm in winter?
One of my favourite ones is King Ragnar Harry Britches. We might have mentioned him on QI actually,
a few people know him. He got his name because his wife made him hairy trousers from animal
skins and they were supposed to protect him in battle, magic trousers.
Yeah, magic trousers. Did they work? Did they, well, we said what are you saying?
I like that. You know that situation when you're in a room and someone comes up to you
who blatantly know and you've forgotten their name. I'd love to see that scene in Viking times.
Short penis? No, sorry. Ugly? There is face? Dickhead?
And you look like a dickhead. I'm sorry. You're right.
Maybe they were more catchy in North. Did you? Yeah, they were quite long-winded, aren't they?
Yeah. That's actually your name of a person if you're quite long-winded.
Yeah. I think I'm stuck on a dinner table with the long-winded.
Did you, the word gun is "norse"? How weird is that? Gun? Gun? Yeah, and it's because
there's an inventory of weapons from the Tower of London, which was in 1330 and there was a
bellister, a big projectile device, which was called Lady Gunhilder, so Gunhilder meant war or battle,
so that's where, so even though they weren't really around at the time. Were they? Guns? No, no.
Vikings. I've just, I've had a moment of crisis of confidence about when they... When did you say?
13th century? Yeah, you're fine. You're safe, safe ground. Something else invented by the Vikings
or from that area, this is one few Anna, sarcasm. Well, thanks, cheers.
Yeah, great. I'd be like that. I'm really good for that. The words of the concept.
No, the concept, according to Clans Gruber, the Danish ambassador, whose name also sounds made up,
he says that the Danish and the British have a similar sense of humour with our sarcasm and the
way that we make jokes, and so he reasons that it must have come over with the Vikings. Do you say
Clans Gruber? No. Clouse Gruber. Oh, Clouse Gruber, sorry. I thought it sounded like
Hans Gruber, the baddie in Diehard. I'm wrong with the Diehard fans. Does his name have a good meaning
in English, do we know? Like, makes up questionable theories. We get quite a lot of a surprising
number of words from the Vikings, don't we? And they're all quite negative, which might be
like Village and Hell, I think, and weak skulls, slaughter, anger, dirt, skulls, might be that I've
gone through them and chosen the most negative ones. It's my point. Muggy. Muggy? Is that negative? I guess so.
It's not a good thing, is it? No. Berserk. You've got to come outside. It's so muggy.
Feeling too dry? So what about Berserk? That's something to do with Bers, is it?
So Berserk, the Berserkers were the Viking warriors who were just insane, weren't they? And they think
that either they worked themselves up into some kind of meditative trance, because they were so,
like, forced themselves to be so angry that they became vicious warriors, or they were just on
drugs. Anyway, they were called Berserkers, which is where we get the word Berserk. Yeah.
There's one theory that actually Vikings weren't worse than anyone else, but the only reason that
we have only bad stories about them is because they attacked monks who are much more literate
than them. And so the monks were the people who were writing things down, and they wouldn't
write anything down. That's a proper theory, yeah. Oh, that's great.
It's like writing something really about Muggy Zuckerberg a few hundred years from now.
Your name will be mud. That's very cool. So what I love about this, obviously, is we're talking about
silly names. And I had a fact, just tell you guys, I had a fact that I tried to use on a previous
podcast, which got rejected in the office, which was that 40% of all penises are in America.
And it's the surname. It's the surname Penises. You can go on a website, and it tells you where
they all are. 40% in America, Fiverr and Britain. And the most popular name, shot.
That must be, that must be someone whose name is Shorty Penis.
Well, there was one guy called Penis Penis. No, actually, that was a popular name, because it was
in... No, it wasn't a popular name. That's a computer error. That cannot be. No one.
Was it hyphenazine? No, no, it was just pure just penis. So you think two penises married each other?
Penis Penis was also a very popular name. Next to Penis Penis Penis. So it's a double
barocer name, obviously. So this shorty must be people filling in online forms with root words,
shot must be... I don't know. The most popular is Bob Penis. So I don't know.
That's an actual name. They didn't let me do it on the show. So not going to get in this wiki, that...
Did you guys get speaking of stupid names? And kind of Vikings, there's a Swedish couple
who are being fined because they failed to register a legally approved name for their child.
And they've, they've presently called their child. I didn't know how to pronounce this is...
Apparently it's pronounced Albin, but it's a series of consonants. And so they were told that they
weren't allowed to register that as a name for their child. And so they said they were willing to
change a child's name to A, the letter A, which also wasn't accepted. And so they've been fine.
But yeah, their explanation was that the naming of their child, as such, was a pregnant
expressionistic development that we see as an artistic creation. That's not really going to cut
it when he's been bullied and scarred. Do you see today? There was a article on the paper today,
and I can't... So maybe someone here will remember it. The number one hacker, internet hacker in the
world, they managed to crack his code and get into all the places he's been hacking because his
personal password was his cat's name with one, two, three. I was just in the news. The worst thing was his cat
was called password. Wayne Rooney had his, his computer hacked, and his password was Stella Atoa.
You know what, helping yourself when you're him with the stereotypes, are you? No, doing that.
Other beers are available. Interesting naming traditions. So the Amazonian Amondarward tribe,
when you say you get your name at birth, and then when your younger sibling is born, you have to give
your name to that sibling and take on another name, and you have to constantly change your name
throughout your life. And that's the tribe that doesn't have a concept of time, so they're really
interesting because they don't have any words for like day, week, month. And so the only way they
distinguish time is by like the stage of life that you're at. So you get a new name for whatever stage
of life you're at. So if you graduate, you're called like history degree. I don't know how many history
degrees they're getting, but wait, do you have to change your name until your parents have their last
child? I understand that right. So yes, you do. As soon as one of the family changes the name,
often the rest of the family also has to change their name. So even if you were 30 and your parents
had another child, all right, that's not likely. Wait. So you could change your name sort of 10, 20 years
later. I guess sharpiness must have been really hoping that his parents had a big child. Come on, guys.
We're not going to do it, Son. You inherited your father's traits. I'm not going there again.
My favorite pop star name change. I've done a few in the podcast, so I can't say that loud now,
but what I discovered recently, Michael Bolton, that's not his real name, Michael Bolton's. What?
Real name is not Michael Bolton. What is it? It is Michael Bolton. He lost an O from it, a single O,
and he lost it. And there's another singer called Michael Bolton, who's a country singer in America,
who they keep asking him like, obviously, you're trying to make a career in music and you're
called Michael Bolton. Why have you not changed your name? And his answer was, why should I change it?
He's only socks. Very strong principles. It's not going to work in the sales, but I found a thing
about Viking mice. Right, or bear with me. There is such a thing as Viking mice. So all the mice in
Scotland and Ireland and bits of Wales are Viking ones because they're directly descended from Norwegian
house mice and they came over with the Vikings and they were much more effective than the weedy Anglo-Saxon
mice. That's how they think they know that the Vikings lived in Scotland and Ireland first in
enough density to support house mice because the house mice only live somewhere where either you get
quite a dense concentration of people. So that's how they know that the Vikings were hardy enough
to live there. It's because their mice went there with them and they lived there in enough numbers
to support them. Viking mice is amazing, yeah. Vikings are quite cool. So they have a god of skiing,
don't they like? They have a god and a goddess of skiing. They have the god of skiing who is
Ulur, U-D-L-L-R, always pictured with skis and a bone arrow and then the proper skiing equipment.
Hey, are you going out on the slopes? Don't forget your bow and arrow.
Yeah, goddess Skade, not they weren't in a relationship or anything but yeah, she was the same,
always on skis, always bone arrow and she married another god called Njord and they split up because
they had a bit of fight about the fact that he loved the coast and she loved the mountains and skiing.
So that's in Norse mythology and Skade is where the word Scandinavia comes from.
That's my very name. Goddess of skiing. That's cool. So the Vikings had quite a cool way of making
fire, fire that could last a long time where they collected fungus called touchwood from trees
and then they would like bash it down and then they lit it, only then they boiled it in water for a few days
and then they lit it and instead of catching fire properly it just kind of, what's it called,
kind of smoldered and then it would last a few days and it would be a useful fire they could take on
ships and stuff. I was reading today that fire is a problem on Antarctica, apparently, because you
want to think it would you because it's cold. Is that melting? No, because it's so dry and like a lot of
wind which can blow the fire somewhere. So if you, yeah, it's one of the things I'm most worried about
on Antarctica is fire. They have a fire department. Is it fire brigade? Really? Yeah, yeah.
Antarctic fire department. Because they're a bit, because the dryest place in the world is in Antarctica
isn't it? It is. So are these valleys, which drive valleys. Never get any, haven't had any rain for
two million years and even then it wasn't much. Yeah, muggy, yeah. So we need to move on, guys.
Oh, really? Do you think about any last things you want to get in? I just have one more thing about
a different type of Vikings. It's a bit sad. The Minnesota Vikings, I'm an American football fan
and there was a Minnesota Vikings fan who vowed to let his beard grow until his team won the Superbowl
and he died in 2013 with a 38 year old beard. So sad. We salute him. Yeah, what a dude. It's amazing.
I found one last fact that I want to add, which is from, we're at the book festival. It's from
our new QI book. This is the fact and it's to do just with names. Johnny Cash is a state once
refused permission for his hit Ring of Fire to be used in a commercial for hemorrhoid cream.
That's wonderful. Good decision. Should we move on to fact? Yeah, let's go. Okay, time for fact number
two. That's my fact. And as we saw at the top, all of our facts come from this new book that we've
done. There's 1,411 facts in this book. I, after much, much work, only managed to get one fact
into this book. I wait till you hear it. And this is my fact. And it concerns the model Jordan.
Otherwise, it was Katie Price. Why, why did you only get one end? They were all about Jordan,
all 900 dance submitter were about. So by fact, this week is, you only live once, is Katie Price's
fourth autobiography. And that's on page 334. Should be on page three, shouldn't they, really?
Is there any sign in it that she's aware of the irony of it? Like, is it a humorous ironic
comment on modern-day celebrity autobiographies that she's making? Of course there is. It's Katie Price.
Yeah. Have you read it? No, I don't see. In fact, I'm pretty sure she hasn't because she was
promoting her new autobiography, her fifth autobiography. And they asked her, where does it pick up
from? And she said, it picks up from the amazing ending of my last book, which I think was about
when I broke up. No, I stopped reading it there. I was like, you cannot say where I think about
your own life in a book. Like, that's unacceptable. But that's, yeah, I just love it. You didn't get
a hit or a man tell going, I think it was Cromwell. I was he dead yet? I'm not sure it happened to
you Winston Smith. Anyway, ask me when we opened the box. Katie Price has written more books than
Shakespeare wrote plays. Well Shakespeare didn't write any plays, really. And I know if you're right,
Katie Price hasn't written any books. They should meet. They should meet. They would get along like a
house on fire. She admitted it. She has admitted it. She had a quote when she was talking about a book.
She said, I'm not going to lie. I don't sit there with a typewriter and write it. So this is someone
who still thinks you write a book with a typewriter. I don't want to knock her, by the way. We don't
do that on this show. I don't want to knock her. But apparently it's full of good facts. They did.
Yeah, everyone's laughing because she said knock her. So this is another thing that she, so Katie Price,
I mean, there was an interesting thing. It actually has gone out on the latest QI book. Sorry, no,
it's on the latest QI episode about Katie Price, which is actually outsold all of the booker list,
didn't she, at one point? Yeah. I mean, so she sells massive, which is insane. But all of them are
ghostridden. She's admitted that they're ghostridden and ghostriding is just ginormous. Now ghostriding
is so big at the moment. This is insane. They've started outsourcing it to other countries. So they
go to the Philippines for ghostriding now. Celebrity order biographies get sent to the Philippines and
they have people that just cannot be true. Are they good at writing ghostriding on the Philippines?
Yeah, quite a lot of people do admit to not reading their autobiographies, don't they?
New and mechanicals as well. What does he say? Oh, he had a great book. He said, I know that many of you
are looking forward to reading this book. So am I. So am I. Oh, here is very good. I can't
make it to read it. Yeah. Noomi Campbell. Models obviously don't like to read there in autobiographies.
No. And Barry Madelow didn't write the song. I write the songs.
Oh, yeah. That's true. That's true. That's true. That's an actual fact.
The first ever autobiography was ghostridden. Well, the first ever autobiography was the Bible.
The first ever autobiography was written by someone called Marjorie Kemp, and it was written in the 1400s,
and she was an illiterate woman who wrote the whole thing in the third person, and so she said it.
Have you? Have you? Yeah. What? I didn't English degree, and they make you read a lot of
yeah, it's not very good. Oh, it's really not. There's no, I'm not. I had to not Marjorie Kemp. We
don't do that on this podcast. She spends maybe three or four hundred pages crying and weeping.
All the words are smiling. Yeah, it's very hard going. It's really with her because she imagines
herself married to Jesus and lying in bed there with him, and it's a very strange text in lots of
different ways. Yeah, that's not funny. It's just, it's just true. She was from Lancashire,
wasn't she? I think she was. I think the words. Yeah. She like a wise woman or something. Yeah,
she was like a prophetess or yeah, who had a religious awakening. It's very interesting,
but at the same time, it's also quite boring. A surprising amount of people used to do ghost writing,
so Mozart used to do ghost writing. Really? Yeah, yeah. He'd write, he would be commissioned by
other people. They'd put their names to it. Mozart would then provide the music for it. Yeah, Charles
Dickens' very first book. It was a book that he ghost wrote for a clown called Gromaldi. Just going
back to Mozart, when he first played in Europe, he was very young, like nine years old or something,
and everyone thought he was a dwarf in disguise. Yeah, it was written that they thought he was.
If you're going to disguise a dwarf, you don't make him the same height. Yeah, that is a good point.
Yeah, that's true. That is true. How do you make him tall? You can't stretch a person as part
of a disguise. Stilts. Oh, put him far away on a hill, so no one can tell. With a small piano, right?
Gary Brown started as a stilt walker. Gary Brown. He just stretched him on the rack for 20 years.
Someone who doesn't stretch his body is Superman. Remember that? Yeah, that's true. Yeah, so as part of
Superman's disguise, he puts on his glasses, but he can also make his spine two inches smaller,
so he kind of goes smaller. When he becomes Clark Kent, he's shorter as Clark Kent, so people
for extra realism don't tell. I mean, he's not real. That was going to be my fact next week.
Damn it. I have a few good titles of autobiographies, which I just really like. Colonel Sanders wrote one
called Life as I Know It has been finger-licking good. Leonard Nimoy wrote one called I Am Not Spock,
and then a follow-up called I Am Spock. I've read them both. It's really good. Highly recommend them,
book festival, free them. I sit next to each other reading I Am Spock and Marjorie Kemper.
And Judge Judy, anyone know Judge Judy? American two sort of weary ascent. Judge Judy wrote one
called Don't Peel My Leg and Tell Me It's Raining, which is apparently an American idiom,
and don't lie to me. Have you? Don't piss up my back and tell me it's Raining.
Might be a Bolton thing. In Bolton, it's necessary to say that.
In 2010, a man was caught masturbating to Alan Sugar's autobiography in Crawley Library.
The man was cautioned and banned from returning to the library. Was the book cleaned afterwards?
He was no more information. In 1979, Gerald Ford released his autobiography and Betty Ford,
his wife was releasing hers at the same time, and his was called A Time To Heal the autobiography
of Gerald Ford, and hers was called The Times Of My Life, which obviously sounds much more fun,
and for that year, for Gerald Ford's 64th birthday, Betty gave him a t-shirt that read,
"I bet my book will outsell yours." That's just quite sweet. And it did. It stood out by a long way.
Wow. Yeah, so good prediction. Yeah. And then next year, the t-shirt said,
"Told you?" Yeah. And then they divorced. And then they didn't.
Alec Baldwin wrote one which sold 12 copies in its first month, which is amazing. And it has an
amazingly bad title. It's called A Promise to Ourselves, colon a journey through fatherhood.
Yeah, that's the nice idea. It's not true that the Bruntay sisters, their first book of poetry,
there were three of them wrote it, and they only sold two copies. So they didn't even buy one each.
In the first year, it took a year to sell two copies. Unbelievable.
Well, they lived together. You can share. Yeah, you're right. I like the fact that autobiographies used
to be called Apologia, didn't they? When so, when you look back to antiquity, then it was always
Apologia, which was sort of apologising for what you've done wrong, which seems like much more people
should do rather than, you know... It was kind of false modesty. Yeah, it was. It was usually a
justification of what all their critics are named at them, and explaining that it was, yeah.
But Augustine as well, who a lot of people say is the first autobiography of kind of a non-classical
age. His was just cool confessions, and that was his explaining, all the stuff he'd done wrong,
and not even stuff that he remembered. So chapter one of Augustine's autobiography was him saying,
"When I was a child, I don't really remember it very well, but I know I will look into
committed loads of sins, and for that I'm really sorry. I feel terrible about it. Don't know what
they were, but I'm sure I did. I'm really, really bad. Sorry guys." Wow. Yeah, no.
John Henry Newman, who's an eminent Victorian wrote one in 1864, which is called Apologia,
Pro Suavita, or Apology for His Life, which sounds very sarcastic. Sorry about my life, guys.
We should move on. Yeah, we're going way over here. Anything else, Andy? One more? No.
I got a couple of interesting things, which I didn't know, which is... So there's a number of things
that are happening. You have Ghost Riding, which is obviously just Ghost Riding, someone's
autobiography. There's a term in the music world, which is called a Hummer, and Hummer is someone
who takes claim of having written a tune on a movie. So, like, back when Charlie Chaplin used to make
his movies, he always said, "Ridden, directed, music by." He would go around, say, he'd walk up to a musician
who he'd hide and go, "Mm-hmm, mm-hmm, mm-hmm." Good luck. And then he would take claim for having
written that song, and that's called a Hummer. A Hummer who takes someone who takes claim for a song,
"Oh, what a humm that they'd done to say..." Hang on, because they hummed near somebody who wrote
something. Yeah, exactly. No, no, they would hum an initial tune and say, "Build on it," and then
they would do it. So, it's Ghost Riding, it's fake. And also, I was really surprised by this. There's
script-doctoring, which is done as well for Hollywood movies, and obviously that is done a lot of the time,
but I didn't know these famous people were involved with it. So, Tom Stopbard, we own a Tom Stopbard.
Tom Stopbard was a Ghost Rider in the movie sense. So, script-doctor for Indiana Jones and the
last crusade, for the Bourne Ultimatum, and for Star Wars 3, Revenge of the Sith. Oh, isn't that amazing?
Yeah. It's amazing in the way that I don't believe it. No, it's true. Yeah, it's absolutely true. And
also, Carrie Fisher, speaking of Tom Stopbard and Star Wars, Carrie Fisher, Princess Leia of Star Wars,
actually Ghost Riding, most of Tom Stopbard's plays. She did script-doctoring for Sister Act,
lethal weapon 3, last action hero, the wedding singer, and she wrote all of Tinkerbell's dialogue
in hook. Well, Carrie Fisher's on the Christmas episode of QI this year, isn't she? Yeah.
Well, if I'd have known that, I'd have got her to write the scripts instead of spending all that time.
Okay, we should move on. Okay, it's time for fact number three, and that is Jonsinski.
Yeah, my fact from the book is that William Morton, father of Anesthesia, first experimented on himself,
but kept falling asleep before he could describe the results.
Day 9, very optimistic a purchasing. That's amazing. Yeah, he loved experimenting on himself and
various things. So this was in the late 1830s, 1840s, and he was experimenting with Ether, and he
also experimented on his wife's chicken. He cut off its crest to see if it would be in pain,
which she said that it wasn't. It's psychopathic. What do you even know this one? I'm just cutting
bits off and it was painful. How does he know? It's right. He's like, yeah, did that hurt?
No, okay. I'll keep going. He spoke chicken because it's one of his gifts. Yeah, experimented on a
goldfish, on the pet dog, on various pets, on his students. We're not still cutting things off,
are we? Yeah, just decapitated. No. Because people tended not to want to volunteer themselves,
but eventually he had to get a volunteer because he did keep falling asleep. So once his wife walked
into the room and found him unconscious on the floor and had to rouse him and he'd been asleep for
about 12 minutes, and he said he thought he probably would have died, had she not interrupted.
His wife went through a lot. So his wife said, he was obviously quite a strange character, loved
these kind of grotesque experiments on himself and things around him. His wife said,
"Never shall I forget my sensation as a young bride at sleeping in a room where a tall,
gaunt skeleton stood in a big box in the head of the bed, which I dislike as the image of
coming home on your wedding night." And he goes, "What's that? It's like a mistake. Just a human skeleton
that he kept by his bed." Amazing. Yeah, deal breaker, I would say, but whatever. Well, what you're already
married, it's too late. Picky, picky, picky. But yeah, so it says in the book Father of Anesthesia,
and he's quite controversial, so for any like Horace Wells lovers out there, I understand that
Horace Wells was the guy who experimented with nitrous oxide, which turned out to be more
effective in a lot of ways, as an anesthetic, but he was unfortunate because it seemed to be working,
so he decided to do a public demonstration of how effective an anesthetic this was in 1845,
and he slightly misjudged the amounts he had to give him the length of time he had to give it for,
and this public demonstration ended in like the screening hysterical, agonized fit of the person in
question, so everyone went home and said, "Well, this is rubbish, isn't it? That's not. There's not
tried this." There was a lot of surgeons didn't really like an anesthetic at the start. Not sure how
I said this before, but there was a Russian surgeon called Nikolai Pregov, and he didn't like using
laughing gas because he was accustomed to the screams and reactions to pain of his patients,
and found it much more difficult to operate on an unresponsive body. Yeah, but apparently he
wasn't alone, like a lot of surgeons like to know that if you prod this bit someone scream and say,
"No, it's not the right thing." They said, "It guided the scalpel." A lot of people don't go there, okay?
Yeah, there was a French surgeon called Magendy who thought it was ridiculous all this
experimenting with anesthetics because he said the pain was essentially irrelevant and it was
barely worth noting the pain of actual surgery, and I've looked into him and he was never operated on,
so I... But then a lot of religious, a lot of Christians thought that it was what got intended
for us and that it was kind of anti-Christian to... Suffering and bearing children. Exactly. Yeah.
Very controversial. Before they had, before, Maulton got involved, and kind of
before Wells got involved as well, they just had laughing gas shows, which just traveled to the
country across America, so supposed professors would travel from town to town, giving lectures,
and then just put people under laughing gas, and then people would laugh and then stagger about,
and then fall over and talk rubbish, and yeah, and they just happened on the pavement, and it was
at one of these that Horace Wells noticed that someone had a painful accident and didn't flinch,
and so he thought, "Oh, well, I'm going to go and try this. I'll try this out on people."
And the next day he had one of his own wisdom teeth taken out under the influence of nitrous oxide,
and that's what set him off on the whole... Wow. It took a long time, didn't it, because when was
what's called nitrous oxide, Humphrey Davy? That was the 1790s, wasn't it, when he was dealing with
laughing gas, and it wasn't until the 1840s, though. So for ages, they've just laughed for 50 years,
just going, "There must be a use to this." At the moment, I ran a really good, so James has
got us a subscription to the British newspaper archive, which if anyone wants to, I would highly
recommend, because it's so fun, so I looked up, "Well, you're going to offer everyone your log in these
times." James Argon... No. His cat's name, 123. So there was a letter written to the Liverpool
Mercury in 1824, and this was in the era when a lot of people were going to shows and having
nitrous oxide tried on them, and it was by someone who'd been to one of these shows, and he tried
nitrous oxide, and he wrote a letter to the paper, saying, describing it, saying,
"The sensation somewhat resembled those I've experienced when coming in for a share of
super fine wine, which wine at most resembles, I cannot determine, but if you or any of your friends
are anxious to have the point settled, you have only to send me a few specimens of superior champagne
or burgundy." I'm really obsessed with people who do self-experimentation, because it feels like
it was a long-gone era where they were doing it, and now you look at the news almost virtually
every day, and it just seems to be going on more and more, people just going into their own world,
not asking for permission. The guy, Barry Marshall won the Nobel Prize. What are your countrymen?
Yeah, an Australian, fellow Australian, won the Nobel Prize for trying to explain that you all
know this better, so why don't you just say this? Yeah, a lot of people know it. I guess it's, so he won
the Nobel Prize because he proved that stomach ulcers were caused by a bacteria called Hylio-Baptor
Pylori, I think it's called, and he found that out by testing himself, by giving himself this bacteria,
he and then he turned out that he did get these stomach ulcers, and then he took some antibiotics,
and it got rid of them, and it's not all stomach ulcers, but it's a lot of them.
Yeah, but he effectively, he should have died off the back of what the medical community thought
would happen to him, so he just went, "Screw, I'm going to drink a petri dish for bacteria myself,
and I'm going to do it to myself." I really admired that, but it has been going forever, and my
favorite, ever self-experiment story is back from 2000 BC, it's from the Ming Dynasty, and it's a guy
called Juan Hu from China who decided to become the first-ever astronaut. The announcement is
like going to be the first-ever astronaut, isn't it? It was Ming Dynasty. Good grief. Yeah, so he
decided he was going to be the first-ever astronaut. They have rockets, and did they? What they did have was
fireworks, so they had some rockets. So he sat on a chair and attached to the chair, 47 rockets.
He had 47 attendants candle ignite, the 47 rockets. There was a massive explosion, and neither one who
or the chair were ever seen again. So they might be in space. It could have worked.
It could have worked. I thought they did that in the movie, but that would have been pretty good.
The press announcement from Pixar. Sorry, we really cocked up this time. I tried to send a character
into space. He's dead. The chair's gone as well. No, no, no one really agrees that this definitely
happened. It's definitely apocryphal. But at the same time, there is a crater on the moon named
one who was created by his impact. As a crater, yeah, spoken to my friends.
Okay, some more self-experimenters. Herbert Woolard and Edwin Carmichael did some experiments in 1933,
and they wanted to know how it felt to put certain pressures on the human testes.
And so they placed weights on the testes, and they explained how it felt. So I'll give you some of
the things they said. Three hundred grams, slight discomfort in the right groin area.
Five hundred and fifty grams, definite discomfort in testes in the region,
followed by a dull ache in the right lumbar region dorsally. Sure, we stop now. No, let's keep going.
I don't know. I'd like to stop. No, we're going on.
And then when they got up to eight hundred and fifty grams, there's a quote of what he said,
and he exclaims at once, that is quite different from the left side.
Wow, good understanding. So speaking of crushing testicles, do you guys
do you guys know Auguste Beer? No. So he's someone who pioneered the cocaineisation of the spinal
cord in like 1898, which is where you inject cocaine into your spinal fluids, and it has a numbing
effect, and it was quite successful. So he and his assistant, Auguste Hildebrand, decided to try it out.
First of all, his assistant was supposed to try it out on him and use the wrong size syringe
for the needle, which meant that he injected Auguste spinal cord, and his spinal fluid just
spouted out all over the room, because it didn't fit the, well, this is useless, and then he was
drained of all this spinal fluid. So they couldn't try that again. So they switched places, and the
assistant agreed to have him inject his spinal cord. I would not switch places with someone who's
spinal fluid, I'd just wasted. I would feel very bad about that. So they did it, and it was quite
successful. I was very successful. He lost all the feeling in his legs, and so he did it worked.
Auguste kicked stabbed, bludgeoned, and burned his shins, plucked out his pubic hairs,
stabbed out cigars on his leg, and then crushed and tugged his testicles. Right, yeah, that's what
happened. This is for my spinal fluid. So he felt nothing, so he thought this has been great,
and they celebrated by getting really pissed and smoking loads of cigars. They woke up the next day,
and apparently it was awful, and they felt like hell for five minutes. Apparently that's a
common side effect of loss of a cerebral spinal fluid, I guess, combined with quite a bad hangover.
You guys, we shouldn't have had that seven of the line of cocaine into our spines.
He was a seventh that did it. Wow. We need to move on, quick and tell you about one.
Of course, another self-experimenter. This guy is unbelievable. In 1804, he was an American
student called Stubbins Firth, what a name. And he wanted to show that yellow fever was not
contagious. And so he did so by, okay, brace yourselves, inhaling the vapor of sufferers simmering black
vomit. He then injected the vomit into his own veins and into cuts on his arms, despite the fact
that a dog he had injected had died within minutes. And then he smeared his body with patient's
blood, sweat and urine, and drank patient saliva, blood and vomit. He didn't catch it because the
samples came from late-stage patients who were no longer contagious. All the guy. All right, okay,
let's move on to our final fact. Time for a final fact. And that is Andrew Hunter Murray.
Okay, my fact is that Chessington World of Adventures banned animal onesies to stop the animals they're
getting confused. So did they genuinely get confused? I'm all confused by animal onesies.
So they weren't confused that it was another animal that was similar to it. It was just a
way you were. They just thought, yeah, that's a poor fashion choice. I don't know why you've gone for that.
It was a temporary one to stop the, they had a new giraffe and a new rhino and they
hired bouncers. And if you went in an animal onesie, apparently you were going to be given a gray boiler suit
to put over it. So it was just, which one may you look more like a rhino?
And a big pointy hat.
Why? We don't know. I don't know. She's exact says.
But there's an article in New Scientist about this. They asked an animal expert and she said some
colorations do give warning signs to other animals and also that movement is the trigger. So big cats
get interested if someone limps past their enclosure because they look weak. And then she said,
possibly the worst thing you could do is limp past the lion enclosure in a zebra print out this.
What about climbing into it?
Also bad, also. Yeah, sorry. Second worst thing, limp past.
Since 2012, the company Kigoo, who make onesies, have sold twice as many panda onesies as
that are pandas. It's easier to make a panda onesie to be fair. So I'm just saying you don't have to
put two panda onesies together and leave them for five years or how long it's going to take.
A panda onesie is more keen to shag each other. It's not what you're saying, than pandas.
Much easier. What they did, if we talked about the zoo in China that tried to disguise really crap
animals. This is a really great animal. In the Henan province, I feel like we might have a zoo.
They tried to dress up a Tibetan mastiff as an African lion. Rats posed as snakes, dogs dressed
up as leopards. In an effort to save face, the zoo's animal department chief claimed the real lion
had been temporarily sent to a breeding facility. Well, they didn't explain why there was a mastiff
dressed up as a lion in the lion's enclosure. By the way, we've got Mozart playing today. You should
come and see him. They do, but they do. When you start to Google zoos and people dressing up as
animals, most of the articles that come down are from the idea that it's the zoo people who are
dressing up. So there were pandas, talking pandas. They had a small baby panda that was born and
they wanted to put it into the wild. So all of the zookeepers dressed up as pandas. So they didn't
think that there was human contact going on. So maybe it does actually confuse the animal. I don't know.
We're not giving them much credit. Animals are very good at recognizing each other. They're a lot
of animals. I think we talked about wasps last week that they can recognize each other's faces. So if
you put wasps in a maze and you show them a photograph of one wasps face that leads to something
bad and one wasps face that leads to something good, then they learn the wasps face and learn to
like go that direction rather than the bad wasps face. I don't know what happens when they meet those
wasps in real life and have you hurt all you can lead me down a bad way. But yeah, sheep are really
good at recognizing each other, which is weird because they all famously look the same.
Now you're being a sheep racist. I'm a sheep. Yeah, if you show sheep, so I think they
experimented on 50 sheep and if you show them a picture of one sheep like two, a couple of sheep faces,
then they can always identify the one that's associated with something good or 85% of the time I
think they identify the one that's associated with something good. So yeah, I don't think animals are
being confused by humans dressed in furry suits. All right, well then in a different case at a zoo
in Tenerife, they have a thing, they do this in zoos now where they dress up
certain members of the team as an animal and get them to try and escape the zoo. And the costume bit.
The costume bit is just just to add effect and fun for them to do.
Well, what's the, what's the, what's the purpose of this? Well, in case in case it's a test if a gorilla
escaped from an enclosure and it started running out how they could have an emergency,
yeah, they have an emergency routine if something escapes and they have to make sure that they know what
they're doing so. Yeah, but a go into gorilla suit can't rip someone's arm off. So they add extra realism
by ripping someone's arm. Yeah, they do. Well, what happened in this case is one of the zookeepers
wasn't told this was happening. So they're really escaping and shot a tranquilizer dart into the
person. Genuinely, this was this year. They had to, they had to bring them to hospital and
bring them back to. That's amazing. So evidently, animals are better at noticing
humans dressed up as animals than humans are. Yeah. In 2008, if you rang up Dublin Zoo,
you would get an answerful message saying, if you are calling to speak to Mr. Rory Lyon,
C Lyon, G Raff, or anyone similar, please be aware that you have picked him of a hoax message.
Yeah, or perpetrating one. That's true. That's exactly what I would do if I had thought of it.
So I really like history of zoos as well. So when London Zoo was first opened, it was obviously
much more wild westy than modern zoos. So they just had, they thought they would use zebra's to pull
people around in passenger carts and carriages and things. You could play with the bears sometimes.
I just let you play with the bears and they didn't have proper vets, you know, they just,
and also, sorry, they were the bears. Yeah, that's never going to end well.
And they died in their hundreds. A female seal disappeared two weeks before the ground opening
and they only found it two days before the public first arrived. I don't know whether that- How does
a seal escape? The sketchy on detail here. I don't know if it escaped the zoo or just was in the zoo,
but not- But in the lion enclosure. The very first animal at London Zoo was a griffin
voucher called Dr. Brooks, who was named after the anatomy teacher who had donated him,
and his job used to be to eat the corpses when they were finished with. But then he had retired,
so he didn't have a fresh supply of food. The corpses of the children who've been
sent to play with the bears? No, sorry. We're in a different place. Dr. Brooks, anatomy school,
he would dissect bodies and then afterwards he would- The voucher could have the rest, but after
he retired, no more bodies, so he said, "We'll have to find a home for the voucher." Wow. Yeah.
One in eight British adults owns a onesie, don't they? That's in one of our five books.
So Dan, from us, Dan owns half of one. Yeah. Is that true? Yeah, just anyone here who wants to see?
Sure, fans. Oh, that looks about right. Wow. Wow. One in eight. That's about 10. Yeah, 10 of a hundred people here. Yeah, that's like 30%. That wasn't 10.
Wasn't that? No, it wasn't. Was it more? Yeah. Any animal ones?
Which animal? Wait, someone in the front row is wobbling his hand because he's not sure if it-
He's Godzilla. Godzilla, a- An animal. It's a good question. Well, yeah. Yeah.
He's not an age to belong. Yeah. This is interesting.
This is one'sie hour on the- Yeah. You know, when you find yourself looking up really, really hopeful stuff
for a QI research, so today I found myself looking up at one point. Animals dressed in human onesies.
Oh, please tell me that you found something. I didn't find anything. My God, if someone finds one, that would be good.
There's a sloth onesie you get. If slothes get minced, then you have to shave them from head to toe,
but they need to remain warm, and so they've designed sloth onesies. There you go, actual onesies full sloth.
Yeah, that's cool. You're not a slowy, the worst human ones here, like in the sloth.
Well, also the worst for if you're trying to show a sloth escaping a zoo, because you could literally go
home, come back the next day, and they've moved a meter. Like that's not the animal escaping. Sloths have
lots of beetles living in their fur, so the onesies would have to be thick enough for all these beetles
to live in, and lots and all sorts. You must be the worst onesie buyer. You're returning it to
the store. I'm sorry, but this is not an accurate description of how slow. Where are the beetles?
For the hell's going on here? It's a fucking joke. I might several attempts to lure beetles into my
account, a few of them found it enticing prospect. Churchill had a onesie, Winston Churchill.
Yes, he called it his siren suit, because air raid sirens, he spent a lot of the second-mile
wall working underground in the cabinet, wall rooms, and he had it especially designed. People
have dressed this up, so they say he invented the onesie, which he did not, that's not fair,
because it's like an adapted boiler suit, but it was auctioned recently for thousands and thousands
of pounds. Really? Yeah. It wasn't an animal. It wasn't an animal. Can you imagine?
Churchill had a dog onesie, was he? When Churchill talks about his branched dog, he seems depression.
Oh, my black dog's back again. I imagine that in the dog onesie going, oh yes.
Okay, Chessington. Chessington wants a bunch of adventures.
They imply a lady who looks very nice called Lisa Briton, and her job is a bird's and the
bee's consultant. Good because I have questions for her. Well, she's there to help children
or immature adults. Thank you. And to tell them what's happening when they're walking past
and the animals are having sex? Do she know when the animals are having sex in Russia?
I can see it with a bank of CCTV screens. Wait, the two lions are at it, I must go.
She says she's most in demand around three species. The monkeys who have no shame and wave their
monkey hood around as part of their courtship. The lions, because it's a noisy affair,
and the tortoises, because it's a very slow process, and they are not discrete at all.
That's amazing. I printed out the page for the history of Chessington Zoo, because they have
a little timeline on their website, and I just want to share three entries with you from three
different areas. It was a very interesting site. It was a civil war place, then it was an
AL house, lots of stuff. Anyway, 1991. Following the development in 1990, there weren't any new
attractions for 1991. 1992, 1992 was another year of little investment. 1993. Fifth dimension
closed at the end of 1993. I've never been, is it fun? Is that a fun place?
It is fun. It's great fun. There's a theme park I discovered. Dollyland. Do you guys heard of Dollyland?
Is it Dolly Parton? Dolly Parton has a theme park, which I didn't know. I'm sorry Dollywood. Dollyland
is a very different place. Dollywood, I'm so sorry. That's so awesome that you knew that. Dollywood,
anyone want to have a guess of the opening hours of? It's 10 to 7. It genuinely is. Missed opportunity,
I don't know what they were thinking. Listen, we need to wrap up really soon. Do we have any more
final facts we want to throw into this? I quite like if we're talking about theme parks. I didn't know
what the first ever roller coaster was, or the original roller coaster. See, are you thinking
Russia? No, Russia, 1700s. Yeah, 1700s. They had Russian ice slides, and it was this
fad in Russia. All the 1700s, Catherine, the great loved them. She had loads of them installed
on her own property, and what they were were. They were structures that were up to 100 feet tall,
and they were what they sound like. So you climb up a ladder, 100 feet, there's an ice slide,
and you just slide all the way down it. People would have them installed in the halls of their
stately homes, so you'd go into a stately home. There's a huge ice slide in the middle. That's great,
so cool. Yeah, and then the French during the Napoleonic Wars saw these and thought that's really
and tried them and said that's super fun, and then they... Yeah, that was the predominant
emotion in Moscow in 1812. It was interesting. Well, they found a city and we're starving,
these ice slides. So the French brought them back and then built the world's first roller coaster,
and called it Russian Mountain in, yeah, homage. Good fact. Good fact. All right, that's it. That's our
facts. Thanks so much for listening to that. That was... We went on way too long, but yeah, for those
listening to this and not in the room, if anyone in the room wants to ask us anything afterwards,
we're going to be selling books downstairs, we're going to be hanging out downstairs, so join us,
that'll be awesome. If anyone listening wants to ask us any questions about the things we've
talked about, we're on Twitter. My hashtag... No, not my hashtag. I do have a hashtag, though, is... I don't.
That'd be the label saying, "Hey, my hashtag is... That would be terrible." My hashtag is Dolly Land.
Yes, my... Oh, yeah, it is a land, yeah. My Twitter name is @Sriberland, James @Xshaped, Andy.
@AndriHondaM. Anna, podcast@QI.com. Yes, or you can get us all together at @QIPodcast. That's our
Twitter handle for the whole of us. We're going to be back again next week with another batch of facts.
Thanks for listening, and we'll see you again. Good night. Good night.
[Applause]
[Music]
You